

Activity				the activity name: WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING,  LAYING 
Subject					Each value identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30. 
tBodyAcc.mean...X			See below description
tBodyAcc.mean...Y			See below description
tBodyAcc.mean...Z			See below description
tGravityAcc.mean...X			See below description
tGravityAcc.mean...Y			See below description
tGravityAcc.mean...Z			See below description
tBodyAccJerk.mean...X			See below description
tBodyAccJerk.mean...Y			See below description
tBodyAccJerk.mean...Z			See below description
tBodyGyro.mean...X			See below description
tBodyGyro.mean...Y			See below description
tBodyGyro.mean...Z			See below description
tBodyGyroJerk.mean...X			See below description
tBodyGyroJerk.mean...Y			See below description
tBodyGyroJerk.mean...Z			See below description
tBodyAccMag.mean..			See below description
tGravityAccMag.mean..			See below description
tBodyAccJerkMag.mean..			See below description
tBodyGyroMag.mean..			See below description
tBodyGyroJerkMag.mean..			See below description
fBodyAcc.mean...X			See below description
fBodyAcc.mean...Y			See below description
fBodyAcc.mean...Z			See below description
fBodyAcc.meanFreq...X			See below description
fBodyAcc.meanFreq...Y			See below description
fBodyAcc.meanFreq...Z			See below description
fBodyAccJerk.mean...X			See below description
fBodyAccJerk.mean...Y			See below description
fBodyAccJerk.mean...Z			See below description
fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq...X			See below description
fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq...Y			See below description
fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq...Z			See below description
fBodyGyro.mean...X			See below description
fBodyGyro.mean...Y			See below description
fBodyGyro.mean...Z			See below description
fBodyGyro.meanFreq...X			See below description
fBodyGyro.meanFreq...Y			See below description
fBodyGyro.meanFreq...Z			See below description
fBodyAccMag.mean..			See below description
fBodyAccMag.meanFreq..			See below description
fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.mean..			See below description
fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.meanFreq..			See below description
fBodyBodyGyroMag.mean..			See below description
fBodyBodyGyroMag.meanFreq..			See below description
fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.mean..			See below description
fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.meanFreq..			See below description
tBodyAcc.std...X			See below description
tBodyAcc.std...Y			See below description
tBodyAcc.std...Z			See below description
tGravityAcc.std...X			See below description
tGravityAcc.std...Y			See below description
tGravityAcc.std...Z			See below description
tBodyAccJerk.std...X			See below description
tBodyAccJerk.std...Y			See below description
tBodyAccJerk.std...Z			See below description
tBodyGyro.std...X			See below description
tBodyGyro.std...Y			See below description
tBodyGyro.std...Z			See below description
tBodyGyroJerk.std...X			See below description
tBodyGyroJerk.std...Y			See below description
tBodyGyroJerk.std...Z			See below description
tBodyAccMag.std..			See below description
tGravityAccMag.std..			See below description
tBodyAccJerkMag.std..			See below description
tBodyGyroMag.std..			See below description
tBodyGyroJerkMag.std..			See below description
fBodyAcc.std...X			See below description
fBodyAcc.std...Y			See below description
fBodyAcc.std...Z			See below description
fBodyAccJerk.std...X			See below description
fBodyAccJerk.std...Y			See below description
fBodyAccJerk.std...Z			See below description
fBodyGyro.std...X			See below description
fBodyGyro.std...Y			See below description
fBodyGyro.std...Z			See below description
fBodyAccMag.std..			See below description
fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.std..			See below description
fBodyBodyGyroMag.std..			See below description
fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.std..			See below description



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Feature Selection 
=================

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

tBodyAcc-XYZ
tGravityAcc-XYZ
tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
tBodyGyro-XYZ
tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
tBodyAccMag
tGravityAccMag
tBodyAccJerkMag
tBodyGyroMag
tBodyGyroJerkMag
fBodyAcc-XYZ
fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
fBodyGyro-XYZ
fBodyAccMag
fBodyAccJerkMag
fBodyGyroMag
fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 
mean(): Mean value
std(): Standard deviation
